#OccupyPatterns

 #NuitDebout french movement combines ingredients from Occupy movement in the United States, the Indignados movement in Spain Notre Dame des Landes ZAD in France, and Anonymous.

Here is a list these ingredients in the form of patterns. 

do you see any others ?

HASHTAG NAME
the name is memorable, take the form of simple Hashtag that can be used on social networks, provides a call to action or imagine something else.

PUBLIC SPACE OCCUPATION
Occupation of symbolic public places including night occupation

LOCAL GROUPS
Local groups self organize under the same brand name and general principles. Local groups have their own media (Local Twitter accounts all under the same brand name). https://framacarte.org/fr/map/nuitdebout_2186#7/46.047/4.801

CROWD OF CAMILLES
No public figure, no flags, when speaking to the press all participants want to be identified as Camille, a gender-neutral first name in French. 

LOCAL GROUPS MAP
Using Umap or other tool to map local groups with related information provided

CITIZEN MEDIA
citizen media: blogs, facebook post, twitter updates, instagram & flickr photos, live stream via periscope

MOBILE COORDINATION
Use of mobile for coordination, including SMS, phone call, maps udpates,
FireChat smartphone app for  'off-the-grid' communication http://edition.cnn.com/2014/10/16/tech/mobile/tomorrow-transformed-firechat/index.html

COMITTEES
Much of the organisational structure is borrowed from the American and Spanish movements: Committees of 30 to 100 people each direct the movement’s communication, logistics, security and entertainment. 

ORGANIZED COMMUNICATION
The communications committee maintains a stylish social media presence on Twitter, Facebook and Tumblr. The NuitDebout pages feature attractive anti-corporate graphics that could have been designed by advertising firms, and their posts carefully avoid inflammatory rhetoric.

GENERAL ASSEMBLIES
Major decisions are made at a “general assembly” where anyone can put their name on a list to speak. People show approval by waving, and votes are decided by a simple show of hands. 

General Assemblies sometimes use mechanisme fo favor public expression of  women and underrepresented minority groups

HAND SIGNALS
The Occupy movement hand signals are a group of hand signals used by Occupy Wall Street protesters to negotiate a consensus. Hand signals are used instead of conventional audible signals, like applause, shouts, or booing, because they do not interrupt the speaker.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occupy_movement_hand_signals

SELF RELIANCE
The groups rely on themsleves and supporters to find food and clothes and has put up mechanisms for redistribution 

SMALL CITY
The camps are organized like cities and have features to function smoothly: reception to welcome newcomers, canteen to cook and eat, education centers, media

CLEAN UP
The community look after its environment and establish mechanisms to clean up.

NO SPECIFIC DEMANDS
Ask for a general change of process not specific demand

NO VIOLENCE
Although there are some violent incidents, the participants generally looks for non-violent actions and doesn't recognize themselves in violent actions.

FUN

CREATIVITY


CC-BY-SA